The Cold War was a period of tension between the United States and the Soviet Union, lasting from 1947 to 1991.
Unlike other wars, the Cold War didn't involve direct fighting between the main rivals.
The Berlin Wall was built in 1961 and became a symbol of the Cold War, dividing East and West Berlin.
The Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 brought the world close to nuclear war.
The Space Race was a major part of the Cold War, with the U.S. and the Soviet Union competing to explore space.
The first man in space was Yuri Gagarin from the Soviet Union in 1961.
NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) was formed in 1949 by the U.S. and its allies for collective defense.
The Soviet Union formed the Warsaw Pact in 1955 with its allies as a counter to NATO.
The Korean War (1950-1953) was a significant conflict during the Cold War, involving North and South Korea.
The Vietnam War (1955-1975) was another major conflict influenced by the Cold War.
The U.S. adopted a policy called "containment" to stop the spread of communism.
The Marshall Plan was a U.S. program to help rebuild European economies after World War II.
The arms race led to the development of nuclear weapons by both the U.S. and the Soviet Union.
The Berlin Airlift (1948-1949) was a U.S.-led operation to supply West Berlin during a Soviet blockade.
The Iron Curtain was a term used to describe the division between Western Europe and the Soviet-controlled East.
Espionage and spy activities were common during the Cold War, involving agencies like the CIA and KGB.
The Bay of Pigs Invasion in 1961 was a failed attempt by the U.S. to overthrow Cuba's communist leader Fidel Castro.
The policy of détente in the 1970s aimed to ease tensions between the U.S. and the Soviet Union.
The Helsinki Accords in 1975 were agreements to improve relations between the communist bloc and the West.
The Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979, leading to a long and costly conflict.
Mikhail Gorbachev introduced reforms called glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) in the Soviet Union.
The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 marked a major turning point in the Cold War.
The Cold War ended with the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.
The Cold War influenced many aspects of culture, including movies, music, and literature.
The Peace Corps was created by President Kennedy in 1961 to promote peace and friendship worldwide.
The Cuban Missile Crisis led to the establishment of a direct communication line between Washington and Moscow.
The Cold War had a lasting impact on international relations and the political landscape of many countries.